All right, so we've still got that error that we saw at the end of the last video.
We're going to leave that code for the moment.
What we're going to do is add a field to the enclosing class.
And come back here,
enclosing class,
and what we're going to do is create a field for this enclosing class
and the field is going to be an instance of the inner class.
So, let's go ahead and do that and actually put it here
just below the instance field I've already got there.
So you can see that's an instance field of the type of the inner class.
All right, so now that we've done that, we'll go back to our code that currently has an error,
down here the bottom.
And the change we're making is rather subtle.
Instead of capital I for Innerclass, we're using the field we've just created,
the lowercase innerclass on both lines.
And you can see by doing that, the error has disappeared.
We've got code that compiles that's because we're now accessing a field
on the enclosing class,
again inner member class with the lowercase i
is the field that we've added on line 22 there.
So, the code's now working because we're using that field that we've just created
and we're not attempting to access the inner class type directly.
Now, this is also very hard to see in a code sample on an exam question,
so be careful to look for an inner class being used like an attribute
or a static nested class.
Now, if we run this code now,
we can see we get that last one – getInstanceName equals testing.
It confirms now that we've changed the value on the inner class instance
represented by the field in a member class.
So, you can see we're setting the instance name to testing and then we're printingout that value
from innerMemberClass.getInstanceName.
And that's this code up here on line 38.
All right, so the next one to examine, static members and their relationship
to the inner class.
So, what we're going to do is add some members to the inner member class
of inner.Enclosing class
So, in other words, this inner member class we've got here, so I'm going to basically put these
directly below the other fields and methods we've got.
You can see by doing that, again we're in the inner member class here,
the code fails to compile.
You cannot have static members on an inner class with one exception
the declaration of a constant.
A constant variable is a primitive type variable
or one of type string that's declared final
and can also be static initialized with a compile-time constant expression.
So, I'm going to undo those changes,
and instead, what I'm going to do is add a constant just to show that it does work.
So, we'll paste in that new code,
and you can see a constant static field there marked as final does work.
So, that's considered a constant and that's why we can declare them on this inner class.
You want to review the inner class members carefully on exam questions.
Static members on an inner class should be a red flag for you to check
for a compile time constant variable. Otherwise,
you'll know the code is invalid.
So moving on, let's add some more members to our inner member class.
So, both of these declarations, the enum as well as the interface
result in compile errors
when trying to add them to the inner class.
Remember that both an enum and interface are implicitly static
and therefore can't be declared on an inner class.
So, I'll undo that code as well.
All right, so the next thing I want to do now is look at variable shadowing.
What I’m going to do is add an attribute to the inner member class
and the attribute's going to have the same names and attribute in the enclosing class.
Again, just to confirm, I will run it again
and you can see we're getting InnerMemberClass.getOuterName
equals e’s instance and f's instance.
if I add this extra code,
we've added now a public string outer name to
our inner member class, remembering that outer name is also defined up here
in our enclosing class.
So now that I've done that,
you can see that executing the code as I've done there
has produced different results than previously,
it's now printing the value from the inner member class attribute,
demonstrating that the inner classes attribute
has shattered the outer classes attribute because obviously, we saw e’s instance and f instances
output on the screen, we're now seeing the word "outer'' there for both lines.
So what if in this scenario, we actually wanted the outer classes value.
So, what we can do is look at our get outer name method.
The one that's defined down here in our and this is in our inner member class,
and what I'll do is, I'll just paste in a replacement for this entire method.
So, the reference EnclosingClass.this.outername that you can see there
is another way to refer to the enclosing classes instance attribute
outername.
And this eliminates the shadowing in this case.
So, to confirm that now,
bearing in mind we saw "outer" showing in the two lines of output there,
we're back to showing e’s instance and f's instance in the output there.
All right, so let's end the video here, and in the next one,
we're going to throw a local variable into the mix and see how that works.
See you in the next video.